Release 5.1.5 (#63)
neo4j/docs-kafka-connector: modules/ROOT/pages/source/payload-mode.adoc

* **`EXTENDED` (Default)**: Provides a detailed structure for each property, supporting schema compatibility and consistency. This format is especially useful in cases where schema changes (such as property type changes) or temporal types are present, ensuring data consistency across changes.

* **`COMPACT`**: Produces a simpler format that only includes the essential fields. This format is lighter and may be preferable when schema compatibility or complex data types are not required.

[WARNING]
====
*Limitations of COMPACT Mode*

* **Property Type Changes**: COMPACT mode does not support changes in property types. If a property type changes in Neo4j (e.g., from integer to string), it can break the schema.
* **Protobuf Compatibility**: COMPACT mode is not supported with Protobuf. It does not support serialization of temporal types (e.g., `LocalDate`, `LocalDateTime`).
====

== Configuration

The payload mode can be configured in the source connector's settings as follows:

[source,json]
----
"neo4j.payload-mode": "EXTENDED" // Or "COMPACT" based on requirements
----

== Example Data Formats

The following examples show how data will be published in each payload mode.

> === COMPACT Mode Example

Reviewer: Should use backticks (monospace) for consistency. See the next paragraph too.

Author: You mean backsticks for all COMPACT and EXTENDED texts?

Author: 👍

[cols="1,2"]
|===
| Field  | Description

| type   | Indicates the type of the property. Possible values include: `B`, `I64`, `F64`, `S`, `BA`, `TLD`, `TLDT`, `TLT`, `TZDT`, `TOT`, `TD`, `SP`, or their list equivalents (e.g., `LB`, `LI64`, `LF64`, `LS`, `LTLD`, etc.).
| B      | Boolean type (true or false)
| I64    | 64-bit integer
| F64    | 64-bit floating point
| S      | String
| BA     | Byte array
| TLD    | Temporal Local Date
| TLDT   | Temporal Local DateTime
| TLT    | Temporal Local Time
| TZDT   | Temporal Zoned DateTime
| TOT    | Temporal Offset Time
| TD     | Temporal Duration
| SP     | Spatial Point
| LB, LI64, LF64, LS, LTLD, etc. | Lists of each corresponding type
|===

For example, a string field will be represented as:

[source,json]
----
{
  "type": "S",
  "B": null,
  "I64": null,
  "F64": null,
  "S": "actual_value",
  ...
}
----

== Configuration Recommendations

> For production environments where performance and payload simplicity are important, `COMPACT` mode is recommended. If your environment involves schema evolution, temporal data types, or other complex data requirements, `EXTENDED` mode provides the necessary structure for schema compatibility.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if we should emphasise performance here. Maybe something along the lines;

```suggestion
`COMPACT` mode is useful and easier to work with when generated messages are consumed with other connectors or applications, and you can relax your schema compatibility mode on target topics. If your environment requires schema compatibility, temporal data types, or you have strong type safety requirements with different converters (`AVRO`, `JSON Schema`, `PROTOBUF` or `JSON Embedded`), `EXTENDED` mode should be preferred.
```

Author: This version looks good

== Compatibility with Sink Connectors

> The `EXTENDED` format was introduced in connector version 5.1.0 to ensure that all data published to Kafka topics adheres to a consistent schema. This prevents issues when a property changes type on the Neo4j side (e.g., a name property changes from integer to string), enabling smooth data processing across connectors and Kafka consumers.

Reviewer 2: Should we also mention that if there is a Neo4j sink connector instance which is fed from a Neo4j source connector, they should stick with `EXTENDED` mode.

Author: sure 👍

> The `EXTENDED` format was introduced in connector version 5.1.0 to ensure that all data published to Kafka topics adheres to a consistent schema. This prevents issues when a property changes type on the Neo4j side (e.g., a name property changes from integer to string), enabling smooth data processing across connectors and Kafka consumers. When a Neo4j sink connector is fed by a Neo4j source connector, it’s recommended to use `EXTENDED` mode, as the Neo4j sink connector can seamlessly handle the `EXTENDED` data type.

Reviewer 3: do `COMPACT` source data work with sinks in some circumstances?
if it never works, I'd use stronger language in the last sentence. Something like "`EXTENDED` mode must be used with sinks..."
